# Ballina RSL sub-Branch General meeting 26 November 2025

## Attendance

Meeting opened: 1733

## Quorum confirmed

## Welcome

## Declaration

- no declarations

## Apologies

- Trish Wilson

- Colin MacDonald

- Graham Feck

- Keith Spirring

Moved: Alan Britt
Seconded: Kent 

## Minutes from last general meeting

Moved: Coleen Wills
Seconded: Rod Gilmore

## Correspondence
Correspondence as listed. Secretary highlighted several pieces of correspondence regarding NSW Branch matters for the attention of members. 

Moved: Blue McEnally
Seconded: Phil Devine

## Treasurer's report
Richard Wills read the highlights of the Treasurer's report

Moved: Richard Wills
Seconded: Phil Chapman 

## Reports

### Advocacy 

- Nil report

### Trustees

- Bill Moore provided an update that the last month was one of the most successful for the fund so far and tabled the report.
### RSL Lighthouse Day Club

- C/- Jamie Tanner who read and tabled the report.

### Wellbeing

- Col McInnes  Visit to local retirement village

### Museum & memorial

- Alan Britt - several small exhibits provided and usual maintenance 

## FNDC Delegate

- MW provided update on the FNDC meeting, including discussion around resignation of directors and president. Ballina advised we had donated $80,000 to the Veteran's Support Ffund that sub-Branches should avail themselves of if needed 

### Ceremonial

- Remembrance Day well received and well attended with about 200 at the ceremony and 80 at the lunch.

### Social
- list provided for 2026

Moved: Kent
Seconded: Al Britt 

## Listed busines

Motion proposed by Dick Wills

"that the 2026 Ballina sub-Branch, budget attachment D, be approved."

A member suggested that the sub-Branch seek BEST grants funding. Executive agreed and will call for volunteers to make the applications. 

Moved: Richard Wills
Seconded: Peter Chiccaldi
## General business

That the Lighthouse Day Club be given approval to donate excess kitchen and miscellaneous equipment. 

Moved: Richard Wills 

David

## Christmas hampers for nursing homes

Mick Patch advised that he would lead delivery of Christmas hampers to nursing homes.

### Moving storage shed

President thanked Mick Patch and Aaron for moving sub-Branch equipment out of the old storage shed. 
## Next social function 

Christmas party 13 December 1200

A member suggested involving members that would like to attend but are unable. Executive agreed to support this and encouraged members to reach out to other members to support. 
## Next general meeting

28 January 2026

Meeting closed: 1824
