# Ballina RSL sub-Branch executive meeting 1 October 2025

## Attendance

Meeting opened: 0935

Present: JT, PW, RM, CM, MW, AR, Allan Britt

## General business

- AB and CM took us through the arrangements for the bus. They propose taking an offer of a shed from the RSL Club
- PW reminded us that we will need to secure the personal and other confidential information contained in the filing cabinets currently stored with O'Grady's that the RSL Club have offerred to store
- Members without email not getting mail outs. RW proposed sending printed materials to those who need a printed copy a week before meetings
- RW suggested getting the agenda out a week before the meetings so that members have notice and can advise which meal they would like. RW also sought more formality in the meetings, including close attention to the agenda and formalised conduct.
- RW invited the Executive to attend Trustees meeting 16 October 2025 to discuss a position regarding RSL NSW proposals

Meeting closed: 1042
