# Ballina RSL sub-Branch executive and ANZAC Day planning with guests meeting 18 March, 2026

## Attendance
DW, JT, MP, TC, BT, AB, JT, DW
**Guests
**Sue Morrison - NSW SES Ballna, Christopher Hardey, Lennox Head Rural Fire Brigade, Sharon Clark - Marine Rescue, Peter Kerkenezov, Australian Light Horse, Claire Tyson - RSL Club, Phil Chapman - Member, Donna Flanagan - Member and Youth Ambassador Co-ordinator

Meeting opened: 9.00am

Apology: Michael Wright, Allan Watt

## General business
- 
- JT - Welcomed all present, apologies for MW advising he is the Secretary and a guru. At the AGM, MP was elected as Vice President.  He introduced TC as new administration officer  asked that all be patient as it is a steep learning curve. AR resigned, moved to new role. JT then asked each guest from a CSO to speak
- SES - Sue Morrison SES tea/coffee-SB supplies. CT RSL Club will provide all supplies. Sue said SES will provide truck.
- LHRFB - Christopher Hardey LHRFB will  march and will lay wreath and order from Shirley's and will advise TC.
- DF - said thought the parade worked better last year by having the roads closed early (ie 10.00am). Others said so long as jeeps, buses with nursing home residents are able to get in. Decoded  marshalls be advised re same and suggested  laminated signs made to place in vehicles so that marshalls allow vehicles in.  
- TC - Entry permit to be made
- PC - Had concerns  getting the elderly veterans physically close enough to  jeeps can be an issue.  DW said making use of the Cellar bottleshop car park as an assembly point could elay the issue.
- Marine Rescue -  will march but not attend dawn service.  They will lay a wreath.
- CT -  JT will have support from her and GD.  New rosemary bushes have been planted,  reiterated the Club doesn't want the general public picking it.  Rosemary will be available.  The RSL Club will be open from 4.30am on the 25th for sub branch availability. Again, no need for sub branch to carry dais equipment over, CT will organise.  All she needs is placement.
- CT - reiterated $5.00 breakfast including tea/coffee for general public in boardwalk cafe, sub branch members, guests in auditorium.
- CT - reiterated 2up from 1.00pm in sports lounge until 4.00pm.
- The pre-event meeting is set down for WEDNESDAY, 22 April 5.30pm at the RSL Club.  This message has been conflicted in correspondence sent to CSO's with last year's date being WEDNESDAY 23, April.  TC to send emails to CSO's correcting. 
- DF - to do a powerpoint presentation at the pre-event meeting.
- AB - asked re Order  March.  DW advised that he has now completed the 2026 Order of March and the ARMY is leading.
- Lighthorse: Peter Kerkenezov will be providing 3 horses (troop).  Discussion-technical terms ie left wheel, right wheel. DF asked Is there ion for the horses to stand like a guard behind the catafalque party as a focal point.   Also suggested the troop could be on the river side of the park. TBC.
- DW -  order would be Police as vehicle control, jeeps and busses, Ballina Pipe Band, JT, flag party, horses, CSOs, schools, ending with police vehicles.
- TC - to liase with Ballina police and Ballina Council advising  horses/animals will now be present at the march.  
- PLighthouse: advised they have inhouse safety policy for the horses,  he can provide a COC.  He  will will provide a straptest standing with a lead in case a horse becomes unruly.  
- DW -  thinks the order is good and that the band won't be too close to the horses.
- AB - raised issue of horse dung and asked if there will be someone available to scoop it up so that marchers don't walk in it.
- DF - said PC was a great help last year in the marshalling area with the school kids.  PC agreed to help again.  JT said the sub-Branch can provide high viz vests.
- DF - advised she has heard back from 12 of the 17 schools she has written to.  She enquired what order the schools march in.  JT advised that Xavier Catholice College and Holy Family be strategically placed, all other schools - do a draw from hat.
- DF-  Brendon Flanagan happy to be bugler even though he hasn't been formally invited.
- DF - Youth Ambassador - Donna said Alice's mother is giving a speech.  It was discussed that 2 Youth Ambassadors attend BLHDC Day Commemoration on Thursday 23 April at 10.00am and 2 attend RSL Lifecare.
- AB - Enquired as to ticketing and was advised through member service.  He asked re pricing - TBA.
- AB - Grace and 3 toasts.  JT - toast to the King, MW to toast RSL, AB to toast the fallen.  Grace to be confirmed if Richard Brown can do it - if not JT said he'll do it.
- AB - Flag bearers, BT and MP will be bearers at the Cenotaph.
- CT - Fly past - advised we are still waiting to hear back - could be as late as week prior to event
- AB - Flag bears for ESO's.  They need to be locked in.
- DF - Last year Ballina Coast High did a good job carrying the Australian and New Zealand flags.
- MP - advised the guest speaker is from the Navy, but rank etc is unknown.
- Lighthorse - Who takes salutes - guests speaker - EYES LEFT ?????????????.  It was dicussed that a starting point for the horses be the Court House, Marine lady said there's a vacanct block near the police station, that they can make available.  PK to liase re starting point for horses.
- DF - asked re communication.  CT advised WAVE magazine, facebook, Paradise FM
- JT - suggested contacting St John's Lismore regarding provison of first aid assistance.
- CT -  RLS Club has a trained first aid officer.
Additional:
- 19/03/2026:  Allan Watt came into the office.  He will be Australian National Flag bearer and will organise someone from the NRNMA to carry the Navy flag.  He will also help with chair set up on the 24th
- MP will help with chair set up on 24th
Meeting closed: 10.30am