**Policy – Ballina RSL Sub-Branch COVID Safe Policy and**

**Procedures**

This document has been developed specifically for the Returned and
Services League of Australia Ballina sub-Branch, taking into account the
requirements of the Ballina RSL Club COVID Safe Venue Plan, the health
orders issued by NSW State Government, NSW Department of Health, and
policies and procedures released by Safe Work NSW.

The Ballina RSL Club COVID Safe Venue Plan, where applicable, and
including terms such as “Patron”, and “customer” will apply for all
Ballina RSL sub-Branch executive officers, committee members, sub-Branch
members. employed staff, and visitors.

**Conditions of Entry:**

The conditions of entry will be publicised on the club’s website and on
signage located in the club foyer and throughout the club premises.

**Customer Entry:**

All customers (both Members, members guests and Visitors) must provide
their contact details upon entry. The sign-in process will be as
follows:

1\. Members are required to produce their current Ballina RSL Club
membership card on entry (*As per existing requirements under Part 3 -
Rules 30 and 31 the Registered Clubs Act*). 1.1 From 1 January 2021 it
is mandatory for **MEMBERS** to register their details via the Service
NSW QR code (*Member Services staff to direct members to the Service NSW
sign-in registration desk*),

1.2 Members seeking to sign in their guests are required to complete the
respective sign in procedures (*As per existing requirements under the
Registered Clubs Act*) **PLUS** the member and guests must then proceed
to the Service NSW sign-in registration desk.

2\. Visitors to the club are required to produce photographic
identification on entry (*As per existing requirements under Part 3 –
Rules 30 and 31 the Registered Clubs Act*). 2.1 From 1 January 2021 it
is mandatory for all **VISITORS** to also register their details via the
Service NSW QR code (*Member Services staff to direct visitors to the
Service NSW sign-in registration desk*).

3\. From 1 January 2021, in accordance with NSW Public Health Orders,
checking out of venues is optional. Members and visitors can utilise the
Service NSW app to check out of the club premises. Contact tracing
records must be kept for 28 days – and stored confidentially and
securely.

4\. People counting cameras and manual recording of patron movement will
monitor capacities in each location throughout the day to ensure
compliance. Club Supervisors and COVID-19 Safety and Social Distancing
Marshalls are tasked with managing the movement of patrons.

**Staff and Contractors:**

All sub-Branch officers, members, staff and contractors must be recorded
as above.

**Social (Physical) Distancing**

Social (physical) distancing will be applied at all times using the 1
person per 2 square metre rule.

All persons attending the RSL sub-Branch area, will be advised to
practice social distancing, by ensuring they stand apart from others in
attendance.

In addition:

- We will take all reasonable steps to ensure RSL sub-Branch members and
  staff comply with Safe Work Australia’s “physical distancing”
  standards applying to hospitality venues,

- Prominently display any mandated COVID Safe signage issued by the
  relevant Government authority

- Manage physical distancing within the Ballina RSL sub-Branch
  administration area of the Club.

**Staff Training:**

All staff members are required to complete the Department of Health
Infection Control Training Covid-19 course.

**Unwell Staff and Patrons:**

Customers and staff who record a temperature above 37.5 degrees are
denied entry to the premises. Consequently, unwell staff and patrons
showing COVID symptoms will be denied access to the club premises. Staff
showing symptoms must get a COVID test and remain home in isolation
until they receive their results.

**COVID-19 Symptoms can consist of the following:**

- Cough.

- Feaver

- Fatigue

- Sore throat

- Sweating

- Shortness of breath

The NSW Department of Health will notify the Club if a case of COVID-19
is traced back to a patron or employee.

**Hand Sanitiser:**

Will be available for use at all office desks and the office/foyer
counter.

**Anti-Bacterial Wipes:**

Will be available at all office desks.

**Employee’s Responsibilities**

**Hand Washing:**

All employees are to:

- Apply correct hygiene and frequent handwashing to help combat the
  spread of the virus.

- To wash their hands, or use sanitiser when a sink is not available,
  regularly or after any of the following activities: using the
  restroom, sneezing, touching the face, blowing the nose, cleaning,
  sweeping, mopping, smoking, eating, drinking, going on break and
  before or after starting a shift.

**Personal Protective Equipment (PPE):**

Appropriate PPE will be provided to employees based on their role and
responsibilities.

Perspex screens, markings on the floor to keep social distancing, or
other protective measures have been implemented to keep customers and
employees safe.

**Contractor Deliveries:**

All deliveries must have contactless delivery and invoicing.

**Staff Briefings/Meetings & Training:**

Will be conducted as and when required to ensure current Health
regulations are communicated effectively and that measures implemented
are adhered to.

**Staff Contact:**

Staff will not make physical contact with one another; greetings will be
limited to verbal or elbows only.

Where practical staff will be directed to remain at least 1.5m from
other staff and customers while working.

**Cleaning Products and Protocols**

Cleaning: Ballina RSL Club employs Contract Cleaners – Facilities First
to clean the club prior to opening on a daily basis.

Facilities First has prepared a COVID safe cleaning schedule which will
be implemented.

All staff undertaking cleaning responsibilities must wear gloves and
wash their hands thoroughly before and after with soap.

Extensive area deep cleans will be automatically scheduled as and when
the need arises or as directed by Public Health officials.

All staff undertaking cleaning responsibilities must wear gloves and
wash their hands thoroughly before and after with soap.

Extensive area deep cleans will be automatically scheduled as and when
the need arises or as directed by Public Health officials.

**High touch points:**

All high touch points such as EFTPOS, computer terminals, tables,
countertops, and doorknobs and must be cleaned using disinfectant wipes,
regularly and at the end of each day for which the RSL sub-Branch office
is utilised. .

**Uniforms**:

It is highly recommended that staff uniforms be cleaned after use.
