# Office admin procedure for using GitHub
## Introduction

Git is a version control system that has been around for a long time. It is used mainly in software development to keep track of changes made to files. For our purposes, we do not need to know much about how Git works for other than a few basic concepts that help explain what we do.  Git is the version control system and GitHub is a website that works as a front end for Git. Think of it as a place to store our documents on the internet so that everyone can work on them all the time. The reasons we use GitHub are explained in [[why-use-GitHub|Why we use GitHub]]. GitHub has many other useful features that are free or cheap that may help with things like project management or collaboration but this procedure will focus on collaborative editing. [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en) and [GitHub for desktop](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop) have excellent documentation that details everything there is to know about both of them if this basic guide is not enough.

## Git basics
A very basic explanation of Git is that it works with files stored on your computer and whenever those files are changed, it records those changes. The files are in a folder, which can also be called a repository or "repo." The changes are called "commits". A person can work on the files on their own computer but any changes they make will not be seen by anyone else until they commit those changes to GitHub. As multiple people can commit to the same repo, any changes will be stored on GitHub. The process of commiting to the repo is called a "push" and getting other people's changes from the repo to copy them onto your computer is called a "pull." Once the push and pull is complete, the same files, with all their changes are saved on both your device and GitHub. We will use GitHub desktop to push and pull changes. There is also a version of it available for phones. 

## Files
The Git files are stored in the GitHub folder in the Office Administrator SharePoint. This folder must be synced on the computer for GitHub desktop to find the files. The most common file we will use is called a markdown file. This is a text file with some formatting that puts special characters around text so that file is human readable but can also be rendered to show different formatting options like bold, italics, headings and lists. The main formatting options we use are headings (#), lists (- or \*) and bold (\*\*). The docs have far more detail on [markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax) formatting.

## Making changes
You should regularly sync the changes in the local folder with the remote repo on GitHub. You must be [signed in ](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/overview/getting-started-with-github-desktop) with the Office Admin credentials for this. Most changes will involve creating a file and then pushing that to GitHub. You may also modify and file and then push that to GitHub. To create a file, the best option is to open an editor like Visual Studio Code or Obsidian, start typing in a new file, then save it. We use the format YYYY-MM-DD-type, for example `2026-10-01-exec-meeting.md` for an Executive Committee meeting minutes that occurred on 1 October 2026. This file naming helps sort the files by date and indicates what the file contains. It is important to use the `.md` file extension so that websites and editors know what format the file is in. Once you have created the file, go to GitHub Desktop and push the changes to GitHub. You do this by writing a commit message and clicking "[commit to main](https://docs.github.com/assets/cb-22918/mw-1440/images/help/desktop/create-commit-details.webp)".

A good Commit message is important. It should say what the change is and why it was made in a few words for example "Create exec meeting minutes 1 Feb 2026." A commit should be about one logical change so if there are many changes, it is a good idea to split those, which is explained in the documentation but involves selecting which changes need to be committed when. For example, adding one file is a reasonable commit but if you update multiple procedures and add minutes for different types of meetings over many days, that should be split into multiple commits. A safer way to make changes to multiple files would be to create a [branch](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/making-changes-in-a-branch/managing-branches-in-github-desktop) but that is not something that we will do often, especially not with only a few contributors. See writing a good [commit message](https://graphite.com/guides/writing-effective-commit-messages-best-practices) for more information.

Before committing messages you will usually need to pull from the main repo. This is important if there are changes, as they need to be synchronised with the changes in your folder. You can do this by clicking "[Fetch origin](https://docs.github.com/assets/cb-58337/mw-1440/images/help/desktop/fetch-button.webp)" in the top right of the app.


